This report presents results of the Inspired project on a developer
methodology for developer oriented application validation. The focus
of this Task was the development of methods and tools to increase
reliability of TPD applications, and to ensure the overall TPD
security.  This work is complementary to research carried in other
work packages on hardware security, platform security, and secure API
design.

The main result is the Jack validation framework that has been
developed during the project. The tool allows to prove properties on
Java program in a user-friendly environment. Java program annotated
with JML assertions can be proved correct at source or at bytecode
level. Many phases of the validation are automated: annotation
generation, anotation propogation, verification condition generation,
proof. The proof part is and cannot be fully automated and different
interactive provers are linked to the tool allowing to prove remaining
lemmas. The tool is fully integrated in the eclipse IDE. A Coq proof
environment has also been developped as an eclipse plugin in order to
have a unique interface in all the validation phases.


Benefiting from users feedback, the tools have also been improved
along the project. They have also been used in industrial or academic
projects for different purposes such that security properties
verification, functional properties verification, code optimization,
or resource consumption verification.
