Copyright (c) 2006-2008 EU Mobius IST-15905 and others

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

http://www.opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The original version of RCC was derived from the Java Programming Toolkit
Source Release from HP labs.

http://www.hpl.hp.com/downloads/crl/jtk/index.html
http://www.hpl.hp.com/downloads/crl/jtk/agreement.html

Software License Agreement

This software, and other information, is protected by copyright laws and 
international treaties.  Hewlett-Packard Company, and its subsidiary 
Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P., (collectively ‚HP) reserves all 
rights except those expressly granted below.

Copyright (c) Hewlett-Packard Development Company, LP

HP does not warrant the accuracy or completeness of the software and other 
information.  This software and other information may have errors or other 
defects.  Any use made of, or reliance on, such information is entirely at 
user's own risk.

By downloading any software or other information you agree to be bound by the 
terms and conditions of this license agreement.

You may download and use personally the software for non-commercial purposes 
free of charge or further obligation.  Your may not, directly or indirectly, 
distribute the software for a fee, incorporate this software into any product 
offered for sale, or use the software to provide a service or a product for 
which a fee is charged.

You may download, modify and redistribute the software to individuals for 
personal, non-commercial purposes free of charge provided that such individuals 
agree to only use the modified software according to the terms of this 
agreement. 

The software and other information is furnished ‚as is‚ without any expressed 
or implied warranty of any kind.  All implied warranties of merchantability 
and fitness for a purpose are disclaimed.  HP shall not be liable for any 
direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages arising out of 
any use of the software and other information. 

For inquiries please contact: Hewlett-Packard Company