

\section{Related work}\label{bml:relWork}

The interest in specification and verification of bytecode
applications is quite recent, and not too much work has been done in
that direction. Several logics have been developed to reason about
bytecode, \emph{e.g.}~by Bannwart \& M\"uller~\cite{BannwartMueller05}
and within the MRG project~\cite{AspinallEtAl:TPHOLs2004}. However, in
this work the main focus was the development of a sound proof system,
while the focus of BML is to write understandable specifications for
bytecode. JVer is a tool to verify annotated
bytecode~\cite{ChanderEILN05}. However, as specification language they
use a subset of JML, \emph{i.e.}\ a source code level specification language.

The development of BML is clearly inspired by the development of the
JML specification language~\cite{JMLRefMan}. Both JML and
BML follow the Design by Contract principle introduced first in
Eiffel~\cite{Meyer97}. The Boogie project~\cite{BarnettCDJL05}
introduces in similarly the Design by Contract principles into the C\#
programming language, both at source code level and for CIL, the .NET
intermediate language.  The possibility to check a property at
run-time, using the \texttt{assert} construct, has been long 
adopted in the C programming language and recently also in Java (Java
1.5, see \cite[\S 14.10]{JLS}). 

Finally, we should mention the Extended Virtual Platform
project\footnote{See
\url{http://www.cs.usm.maine.edu/~mroyer/xvp/}.}. This project aims at
developing a framework that allows to compile JML annotations, to
allow run-time checking~\cite{AlagicXVP05}. However, in contrast to
our work, they do not intend to do static verification of bytecode
programs. Moreover, their platform takes JML-annotated source code
files as starting point, so it is not possible to annotate bytecode
applications directly.


